---
title: Components
description: The main components that make up OpenTelemetry
aliases: [data-collection]
weight: 20
---

* OpenTelemetry's main components
  - [Specification](#specification)
  - [Collector](#collector)
  - [Language-specific API \& SDK implementations](#language-specific-api--sdk-implementations)
    - [Instrumentation Libraries](#instrumentation-libraries)
    - [Exporters](#exporters)
    - [Zero-Code Instrumentation](#zero-code-instrumentation)
    - [Resource Detectors](#resource-detectors)
    - [Cross Service Propagators](#cross-service-propagators)
    - [Samplers](#samplers)
  - [Kubernetes operator](#kubernetes-operator)
  - [Function as a Service assets](#function-as-a-service-assets)

## Specification

* == [requirements & expectations](../specs/)
  * cross-language
  * / ALL implementations
  * == define
    - **API**
      - == data types + operations /
        - generate telemetry data
        - correlate telemetry data
    - **SDK**
      - API's language-specific implementation
        - requirements
        - configuration,
        - data processing,
        - exporting concepts
    - **Data**
      - telemetry backend
        - can provide support -- for --
          - OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP)
          - vendor-agnostic semantic conventions

## Collector

* [Collector](../collector/)

## Language-specific API & SDK implementations

* OpenTelemetry's language SDKs
  * allow you
    * , -- via OpenTelemetry API, --
      * generate telemetry data
      * export the telemetry data -- to a -- preferred backend
    * | your applications
      * add instrumentation functionality

* [Instrumentation](instrumentation/)

### Instrumentation libraries

* == OpenTelemetry's components /
  * generate
    * relevant telemetry data
  * 's goal
    * 💡is included | ALL popular libraries💡
      * == NOT require separate dependencies
      * _Example:_ express includes it
* uses
  * popular libraries & frameworks

* [MORE](instrumentation/libraries)

### Exporters

* [here](../_includes/exporters/intro.md)

### Zero-code instrumentation

* ❌NO require touch your source code ❌
* OpenTelemetry's language-specific
* provides | your application,
  * OpenTelemetry
    * API
    * SDK

* [MORE](instrumentation/zero-code/)

### Resource detectors

* TODO:
A [resource](/docs/concepts/resources/) represents the entity producing
telemetry as resource attributes. For example, a process that produces telemetry
that is running in a container on Kubernetes has a Pod name, a namespace, and
possibly a deployment name. You can include all these attributes in the
resource.

The language specific implementations of OpenTelemetry provide resource
detection from the `OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES` environment variable and for many
common entities, like process runtime, service, host, or operating system.

For more information, see [Resources](/docs/concepts/resources/).

### Cross-service propagators

Propagation is the mechanism that moves data between services and processes.
Although not limited to tracing, propagation allows traces to build causal
information about a system across services that are arbitrarily distributed
across process and network boundaries.

For the vast majority of the use cases, context propagation happens through
instrumentation libraries. If needed, you can use propagators yourself to
serialize and deserialize cross-cutting concerns such as the context of a span
and [baggage](/docs/concepts/signals/baggage/).

### Samplers

Sampling is a process that restricts the amount of traces that are generated by
a system. Each language-specific implementation of OpenTelemetry offers several
[head samplers](/docs/concepts/sampling/#head-sampling).

For more information, see [Sampling](/docs/concepts/sampling).

## Kubernetes operator

The OpenTelemetry Operator is an implementation of a Kubernetes Operator. The
operator manages the OpenTelemetry Collector and auto-instrumentation of the
workloads using OpenTelemetry.

For more information, see [K8s Operator](/docs/platforms/kubernetes/operator/).

## Function as a Service assets

OpenTelemetry supports various methods of monitoring Function-as-a-Service
provided by different cloud vendors. The OpenTelemetry community currently
provides pre-built Lambda layers able to auto-instrument your application as
well as the option of a standalone Collector Lambda layer that can be used when
instrumenting applications manually or automatically.

For more information, see [Functions as a Service](/docs/platforms/faas/).
